Auto Scaling of Kubernetes pods using KEDA External Scaler
==========================================================

You may want to read through the
[KEDA](https://keda.sh/)
before trying out the following example.

KEDA is a Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler. With KEDA, you can drive the scaling of any container in Kubernetes based on custom application metrics that are external to Kubernetes.<br>
KEDA is introducing a new Kubernetes Custom Resource Definition called [ScaledObject](https://keda.sh/docs/2.9/concepts/scaling-deployments/#scaledobject-spec).
KEDA ScaledObject is used to define how KEDA should scale your application and what the triggers are.<br>
The external ScaledObject can be configured to periodically poll your application (over gRPC protocol) to get the name/value of the custom application metrics that should control the number of pods (`replicas`) for a specific Kubernetes Deployment/StatefulSet.<br><br>
This simple example is showing how to easilly add the related gRPC endpoints to your application to support such custom Auto Scaling.<br>
The gRPC API endpoints that should be added to your application are specified by the [externalscaler.proto](src/main/proto/externalscaler.proto).<br>
The following example is building and running `external-scaler-server` that is serving as the gRPC server of your application.<br>
Based on the periodic response from the `external-scaler-server`, KEDA external [ScaledObject](helm/external-scaler-server/templates/keda_scaled_object_deployment.yaml) is scaling the number of `nginx` pods (`replicas`).<br>

## KEDA External Scaler Server

- [External scaler](src/main/java/io/grpc/examples/externalscaler)

### <a name="to-build-the-examples"></a> To build the [KEDA](https://keda.sh/docs/latest/concepts/external-scalers/) External Scaler Server example 

1. From grpc-java/examples directory:
```
./gradlew clean docker
```

This creates the docker image `kuberneteszookeeper/external-scaler-server`.
The `kuberneteszookeeper/external-scaler-server` docker image should be accessible from the k8s clsuter.

To try the external scaler please run:

```
./keda/install_keda.sh
```
```
./helm/helm_install.sh
```
```
helm upgrade --install external-scaler-server ./helm/external-scaler-server/ --namespace external-scaler-server --create-namespace --values ./helm/external-scaler-server/values.yaml
```

That's it!<br>
The [external KEDA](https://keda.sh/docs/latest/scalers/external/) ScaledObject is now periodically polling the external-scaler-server (over gRPC protocol) for the name/value of the metric.
Based on the value (and the target size for this metric), KEDA is scaling the related nginx Deployment/StatefulSet.

You may run the following:

```
kubectl -n external-scaler-server get ScaledObject
kubectl -n external-scaler-server get HorizontalPodAutoScaler
kubectl -n external-scaler-server get pods
kubectl -n external-scaler-server logs -f -l name=external-scaler-server
```

This example is scaling the number of nginx pods (`replicas`) based on the value of an application metric in real time.<br>
The external-scaler-server pod is running a gRPC server that is responding to the periodic `getMetricSpec` and `getMetrics` requests that are generated by the external KEDA ScaledObject.<br>
The docker log of the external-scaler-server pod is showing the response for the periodic `getMetricSpec` and `getMetrics` requests that are generated by the external KEDA ScaledObject.
<br>
<br>
The `getMetricSpec` response specifies the name of custom application metric that should control the auto scaling and its target size.<br>
In this specific example the returned `metricName` is `"number_of_jobs"` and its `targetSize` is `"4"`. That is, each nginx pod should not run more than `"4"` application jobs.<br>
In this specific example the polling interval (`pollingInterval`) is set to `30` seconds in helm [values.yaml](helm/external-scaler-server/values.yaml).
<br>
<br>
The periodic `getMetrics` response specifies the value of the custom application metric.<br>
The external KEDA ScaledObject is dividing the returned  value of the custom application metric by its target size ( `"4"` ) - and set the nginx number of nginx pods (`replicas`) accordingly.<br>
For example, `metricValue: "20"` and `targetSize: "4"` will set the nginx `replicas` to 5 ( "20" applications jobs require 5 nginx pods ).
<br>
<br>
In a different terminal window you may run and view the changing number of nginx pods:

```
kubectl get pods -n external-scaler-server -w
```

For more information, refer to KEDA
[keda](https://keda.sh/).
